---
layout: paper
title: Mechanism of Preferential Adsorption of SO<sub>2</sub> into Two Microporous Paddle Wheel Frameworks M(bdc)(ted)<sub>0.5</sub>
image: /images/papers/tan-2012-so2_ChemMater.png
authors: K. Tan, <b>P. Canepa</b>, Q. Gong, J. Liu, D. H. Johnson, A. Dyevoich, P. K. Thallapally, T. Thonhauser, J. Li, Y. J. Chabal. 
year: 2013
ref: Tan et al. 2013. Chem. Mater.
journal: "Chem. Mater. 25 (23), 4653–4662 (2013)"
doi: 10.1021/cm301427w
github: NA
pdf: /pdfs/papers/tan-2012-so2_ChemMater.pdf
---

## Abstract

The selective adsorption of a corrosive gas, SO<sub>2</sub>, into two microporous pillared paddle-wheel frameworks M(bdc)(ted)<sub>0.5</sub> [M = Ni, Zn; bdc =1,4-benzenedicarboxylate; ted = triethylenediamine] is studied by volumetric adsorption measurements and a combination of in situ infrared spectroscopy and ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The uptake of SO<sub>2</sub> in M(bdc)(ted)<sub>0.5</sub> at room temperature is quite significant, 9.97 mol/kg at 1.13 bar. The major adsorbed SO<sub>2</sub> molecules contributing to the isotherm measurements are characterized by stretching bands at 1326 and 1144 cm<sup>–1</sup>. Theoretical calculations including van der Waals interactions (based on vdW-DF) suggest that two adsorption configurations are possible for these SO<sub>2</sub> molecules. One geometry involves an SO<sub>2</sub> molecule bonded through its sulfur atom to the oxygen atom of the paddle-wheel building unit and its two oxygen atoms to the C–H groups of the organic linkers by formation of hydrogen bonds. Such a configuration results in a distortion of the benzene rings, which is consistent with the experimentally observed shift of the ring deformation mode. In the other geometry, SO<sub>2</sub> establishes hydrogen bonding with −CH<sub>2</sub> group of the ted linker through its two oxygen atoms simultaneously. The vdW-DF-simulated frequency shifts of the SO<sub>2</sub> stretching bands in these two configurations are similar and in good agreement with spectroscopically measured values of physisorbed SO<sub>2</sub>. In addition, the IR spectra reveal the presence of another minor species, characterized by stretching modes at 1242 and 1105 cm<sup>–1</sup> and causing significant perturbations of MOFs vibrational modes (CH<sub>x</sub> and carboxylate groups). This species is more strongly bound, requiring a higher temperature (∼150 &#176;C) to remove it than for the main physisorbed species. The adsorption configurations of SO<sub>2</sub> into M(bdc)(ted)<sub>0.5</sub> derived by infrared spectroscopy and vdW-DF calculations provide the initial understanding to develop microporous metal organic frameworks materials based on paddlewheel secondary-building units for SO<sub>2</sub> removal in industrial processes.